README.md, before:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/logo2_small.png"><br>
	<b>A full access file browser for the DS and DSi consoles :godmode:</b>
	<br>
	<a href="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/actions/workflows/building.yml">
		<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/actions/workflows/building.yml/badge.svg" height="20" alt="Build status on GitHub Actions">
	</a>
	<a href="https://discord.gg/yD3spjv" style="padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px;">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20Server-%23GodMode9i-green.svg">
	</a>
	<a href="https://gbatemp.net/threads/release-godmode9i-all-access-file-browser-for-the-ds-i-and-3ds.520096/" style="padding-left: 5px;">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GBAtemp-thread-blue.svg" height="20">
	</a>
	<a href="https://crowdin.com/project/godmode9i">
		<img src="https://badges.crowdin.net/godmode9i/localized.svg" alt="localization status on Crowdin">
	</a>
</p>

GodMode9i is a full access file browser for the Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi and the Nintendo 3DS's TWL_FIRM.

<div align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/drive-menu.png" alt="Drive menu">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/file-list.png" alt="File list">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/nds-file-menu.png" alt="NDS file menu">
</div>

## Features

- Dump Game Boy Advance cartridges on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles.
- Dump Nintendo DS/DSi cartridges on Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS consoles (if GodMode9i is run on the console SD card).
   - They can also be dumped on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles, if running from a Slot-2 flashcard.
   - DS/DSi cartridge save data can be dumped on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles using the save data of GBA cartridges.
- Restore save files to DS and GBA cartridges.
- Copy, move, delete, rename files/folders and create folders.
- Mount the NitroFS of NDS files, DSiWare saves, and FAT images.
- View and edit the contents of files with a hex editor.
- Calculate the SHA-1 hash of files on Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS consoles.
- Browse files on supported flashcards when running GM9i from the NAND or SD Card. (`AceKard 2(i)` & `R4 Ultra (r4ultra.com)`)
- Browse files on the internal NAND of Nintendo DSi consoles.
- Browse files on the SD Card when running GM9i from any DS-mode flashcard. (Requires **TW**i**L**ight Menu++ with Slot-1 SD/SCFG access enabled, and TWLMenu++ installed on the flashcard.)
- Translated to many different languages. Join the [Crowdin project](https://crowdin.com/project/godmode9i) to contribute more!

## Building
If you don't want to compile yourself but you still want to get the latest build, please use our [TWLBot github repository](https://github.com/TWLBot/Builds/blob/master/extras/GodMode9i.7z)

In order to compile this application on your own, you will need [devkitPro](https://devkitpro.org/) with the devkitARM toolchain, plus the necessary tools and libraries. devkitPro includes `dkp-pacman` for easy installation of all components:

```
 $ dkp-pacman -Syu devkitARM general-tools dstools ndstool libnds libfat-nds
```

Once everything is downloaded and installed, `git clone` this repository, navigate to the folder in which it was cloned, and run `make` to compile the application. If there is an error, let us know.

## Custom Fonts
GodMode9i uses the same FRF font files as [GodMode9](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9). To create an FRF font use [GodMode9's Python script](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9/blob/master/utils/fontriff.py) or you can find some in the `resources/fonts` folder in this repository.

When loading GodMode9i will try to load `/gm9i/font.frf` on your SD card and if that fails will load the default font. To change the default font when building GodMode9i, replace `data/font_default.frf` with your font.

## Credits
* [RocketRobz](https://github.com/RocketRobz): Main Developer.
* [Evie/Pk11](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11): Contributor.
* [zacchi4k](https://github.com/zacchi4k): Logo designer.
* [Edo9300](https://github.com/edo9300): Save reading code from his save manager tool.
* [endrift](https://github.com/endrift): GBA ROM dumping code from [duplo](https://github.com/endrift/duplo), used for 64MB ROMs.
* [JimmyZ](https://github.com/JimmyZ): NAND code from twlnf (with writing code stripped for safety reasons).
* [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie): ConsoleID code (originating from dumpTool).
* [devkitPro](https://github.com/devkitPro): devkitARM, libnds, original nds-hb-menu code, and screenshot code.
* [d0k3](https://github.com/d0k3): Developer of GodMode9 for the Nintendo 3DS, which this is inspired by.
* [門真 なむ (Num Kadoma)](https://littlelimit.net): k6x8 font used for the default font's Kanji and 美咲ゴシック font in resources folder
   * Additional Chinese is from [Angelic47/FontChinese7x7](https://github.com/Angelic47/FontChinese7x7)

### Translators
* Chinese (Simplified): [cai_miao](https://crowdin.com/profile/cai_miao), [James-Makoto](https://crowdin.com/profile/vcmod55)
* Dutch: [Minionguyjpro](https://crowdin.com/profile/minionguyjpro)
* French: [Benjamin](https://crowdin.com/profile/sombrabsol), [Dhalian.](https://crowdin.com/profile/dhalian3630)
* German: [redstonekasi](https://crowdin.com/profile/redstonekasi)
* Hebrew: [Yaniv Levin](https://crowdin.com/profile/y4niv)
* Hungarian: [Viktor Varga](http://github.com/vargaviktor)
* Italian: [Malick](https://crowdin.com/profile/malick1160), [TM-47](https://crowdin.com/profile/-tm-), [zacchi4k](https://crowdin.com/profile/zacchi4k)
* Japanese: [Cloud0835](https://crowdin.com/profile/cloud0835), [Pk11](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11)
* Romanian: [Tescu](https://crowdin.com/profile/tescu48)
* Russian: [Ckau](https://crowdin.com/profile/ckau), [Молодая Кукуруза](https://crowdin.com/profile/bessmertnyi_mikhail)
* Spanish: [Allinxter](https://crowdin.com/profile/allinxter), [beta215](https://crowdin.com/profile/beta215)
* Turkish: [Egehan.TWL](https://crowdin.com/profile/egehan.twl), [Grandmaquil](https://crowdin.com/profile/grandmaquil), [rewold20](https://crowdin.com/profile/rewold20)
* Ukrainian: [GriShafir](https://crowdin.com/profile/grishafir)

Commit message:

Add optional bootstrap...
* Added new bootstrap program. use this if GM9N is whitescrening or
otherwise failing to boot correctly for you.
* Modified top screen logo.
* Some more tweaks to code to hopefully make it boot more reliably.
* Updated ReadMe file.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/logo2_small.png"><br>
	<b>A full access file browser for the DS and DSi consoles :godmode:</b>
	<br>
	<a href="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/actions/workflows/building.yml">
		<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/actions/workflows/building.yml/badge.svg" height="20" alt="Build status on GitHub Actions">
	</a>
	<a href="https://discord.gg/yD3spjv" style="padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px;">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20Server-%23GodMode9i-green.svg">
	</a>
	<a href="https://gbatemp.net/threads/release-godmode9i-all-access-file-browser-for-the-ds-i-and-3ds.520096/" style="padding-left: 5px;">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GBAtemp-thread-blue.svg" height="20">
	</a>
	<a href="https://crowdin.com/project/godmode9i">
		<img src="https://badges.crowdin.net/godmode9i/localized.svg" alt="localization status on Crowdin">
	</a>
</p>

GodMode9Nrio is a full access file browser for the Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi and the Nintendo 3DS's TWL_FIRM but this version is focused towards NAND based flashcarts like N-Card and it's clones.
GM9N_Bootstrap is included as an option for booting GodMode9Nrio in the event boot reliability is bad for you. The INI file for this bootstrap can be used to define a custom path to the GM9N NDS file. It is expected for this INI file to be in _nds folder.
If the INI file is not present the default boot path for G9MN will be in the NDS folder.

## Features Removed for compatiblity
Please note that some features were removed to make this functional for NTR mode switch currently required to make NRIO DLDI work properly.
That includes the removal of NitroFS data files from main GM9 SRL and the ability to mount the NitroFS of GM9N.
You can boot uDisk from NRIO cards and run Xmenu with this but it is not recommended as you may get save related errors when trying to boot things with xmenu.
TWL NAND and Ramdisk mounting has also been removed. The cart dumping features may also not operate correctly. Please use normal build of GM9i for those features. 

<div align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/drive-menu.png" alt="Drive menu">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/file-list.png" alt="File list">
	<img src="https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/raw/master/resources/screenshots/nds-file-menu.png" alt="NDS file menu">
</div>

## Features

- Dump Game Boy Advance cartridges on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles.
- Dump Nintendo DS/DSi cartridges on Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS consoles (if GodMode9i is run on the console SD card).
   - They can also be dumped on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles, if running from a Slot-2 flashcard.
   - DS/DSi cartridge save data can be dumped on the original Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite consoles using the save data of GBA cartridges.
- Restore save files to DS and GBA cartridges.
- Copy, move, delete, rename files/folders and create folders.
- Mount the NitroFS of NDS files, DSiWare saves, and FAT images.
- View and edit the contents of files with a hex editor.
- Calculate the SHA-1 hash of files on Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS consoles.
- Browse files on supported flashcards when running GM9i from the NAND or SD Card. (`N-Card and it's clones`)
- Browse files on the internal NAND of Nintendo DSi consoles.
- Browse files on the SD Card when running GM9i from any DS-mode flashcard. (Requires **TW**i**L**ight Menu++ with Slot-1 SD/SCFG access enabled, and TWLMenu++ installed on the flashcard.)
- Translated to many different languages. Join the [Crowdin project](https://crowdin.com/project/godmode9i) to contribute more!

## Building
If you don't want to compile yourself but you still want to get the latest build, please use our [TWLBot github repository](https://github.com/TWLBot/Builds/blob/master/extras/GodMode9i.7z)

In order to compile this application on your own, you will need [devkitPro](https://devkitpro.org/) with the devkitARM toolchain, plus the necessary tools and libraries. devkitPro includes `dkp-pacman` for easy installation of all components:

```
 $ dkp-pacman -Syu devkitARM general-tools dstools ndstool libnds libfat-nds
```

Once everything is downloaded and installed, `git clone` this repository, navigate to the folder in which it was cloned, and run `make` to compile the application. If there is an error, let us know.

## Custom Fonts
GodMode9i uses the same FRF font files as [GodMode9](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9). To create an FRF font use [GodMode9's Python script](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9/blob/master/utils/fontriff.py) or you can find some in the `resources/fonts` folder in this repository.

When loading GodMode9i will try to load `/gm9i/font.frf` on your SD card and if that fails will load the default font. To change the default font when building GodMode9i, replace `data/font_default.frf` with your font.

## Credits
* [RocketRobz](https://github.com/RocketRobz): Main Developer.
* [Evie/Pk11](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11): Contributor.
* [zacchi4k](https://github.com/zacchi4k): Logo designer.
* [Edo9300](https://github.com/edo9300): Save reading code from his save manager tool.
* [endrift](https://github.com/endrift): GBA ROM dumping code from [duplo](https://github.com/endrift/duplo), used for 64MB ROMs.
* [JimmyZ](https://github.com/JimmyZ): NAND code from twlnf (with writing code stripped for safety reasons).
* [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie): ConsoleID code (originating from dumpTool).
* [devkitPro](https://github.com/devkitPro): devkitARM, libnds, original nds-hb-menu code, and screenshot code.
* [d0k3](https://github.com/d0k3): Developer of GodMode9 for the Nintendo 3DS, which this is inspired by.
* [門真 なむ (Num Kadoma)](https://littlelimit.net): k6x8 font used for the default font's Kanji and 美咲ゴシック font in resources folder
   * Additional Chinese is from [Angelic47/FontChinese7x7](https://github.com/Angelic47/FontChinese7x7)

### Translators
* Chinese (Simplified): [cai_miao](https://crowdin.com/profile/cai_miao), [James-Makoto](https://crowdin.com/profile/vcmod55)
* Dutch: [Minionguyjpro](https://crowdin.com/profile/minionguyjpro)
* French: [Benjamin](https://crowdin.com/profile/sombrabsol), [Dhalian.](https://crowdin.com/profile/dhalian3630)
* German: [redstonekasi](https://crowdin.com/profile/redstonekasi)
* Hebrew: [Yaniv Levin](https://crowdin.com/profile/y4niv)
* Hungarian: [Viktor Varga](http://github.com/vargaviktor)
* Italian: [Malick](https://crowdin.com/profile/malick1160), [TM-47](https://crowdin.com/profile/-tm-), [zacchi4k](https://crowdin.com/profile/zacchi4k)
* Japanese: [Cloud0835](https://crowdin.com/profile/cloud0835), [Pk11](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11)
* Romanian: [Tescu](https://crowdin.com/profile/tescu48)
* Russian: [Ckau](https://crowdin.com/profile/ckau), [Молодая Кукуруза](https://crowdin.com/profile/bessmertnyi_mikhail)
* Spanish: [Allinxter](https://crowdin.com/profile/allinxter), [beta215](https://crowdin.com/profile/beta215)
* Turkish: [Egehan.TWL](https://crowdin.com/profile/egehan.twl), [Grandmaquil](https://crowdin.com/profile/grandmaquil), [rewold20](https://crowdin.com/profile/rewold20)
* Ukrainian: [GriShafir](https://crowdin.com/profile/grishafir)
